So, if we start from scratch and
we take the definition that we had before,
well then what is DevOps, right?
What is DevOps in the sense for us, right?
And the goal of it really
is to improve the speed and
reliability of software
releases by automating.
Parts of the software development and
deployment process, and
by fostering culture of collaboration and
experimentation among teams.
Now, I'm gonna pause here really quickly
because one of the biggest things
that people will make a mistake of even
here is they'll jump on the automation.
They won't jump on fostering
a culture of collaboration and
experimentation among teams.
Because of that,
if you just do the automation part,
you're missing half of the solution,
right?
This is why it's so crucial, to not just
create automating parts that help you
click a button faster and
move through something faster.
But it's also good for your teams to
understand what that automation is.
It's good for IT or QA to be able
to look at something and say, okay,
we automate this like this,
we're all on the same page.
We're not confused by what's happening or
anything like that.
So again, DevOps is two things,
it is first collaboration and
essentially a joining of minds and
the second one is programming
which is the part we all love.
So, what is it not, right?
We said, okay, well, this is what
DevOps is, well, what is it not?
It's not a tool or technology.
I'm gonna say it 5,000 times.
It is not a tool or technology.
It's not even a job title or
job description.
I technically am not titled
as a DevOps engineer.
I am a senior software engineer.
I did not want, in all seriousness,
to have my title as a DevOps
engineer because that doesn't
really describe what I
actually represent myself as.
I do DevOps, I follow practices and
things like that, but it's not a job.
It's not a tool, right?
And it's not a standalone practice of
one thing that you do versus another.
It's a whole, again, ecosystem and
much other things as well.
Again, I'm just gonna say it one
more time, DevOps is never tools or
technologies, and thank you, Moss.
It really isn't.
If somebody comes up to you in your
company and says, hey, we really want to
try this out to solve this problem,
then you should say, okay, cool,
remove the technology and ask yourself
if we still have the problem, right?
If we could do that,
then we should be able to solve
it with almost anything, right?
We don't necessarily need
that one piece of technology.
So again, DevOps is never tools or
technologies,
it's much more practice and
theory and things like that.
It's really a philosophy
is what I'm trying to say.
And again, it's a mindset that emphasizes
collaboration, communication, and
integration between software and
developers teams.
So if you're at a company and
maybe they're not looking at
it as much of a philosophy.
That's gonna be a barrier
you're gonna have to hit first.
A lot of companies do not fully
adapt the philosophy of it,
and so because of that,
not really interest and
adaption of the philosophy,
it is so hard to do anything.
And this is something that a lot of DevOps
engineers have dealt with too where you
want to start, you get into a new company,
you see all the things that
you'd like to start changing.
And as I said before,
they're not drinking the Kool Aid.
So, what do you do?
And this is another part of
DevOps where it's up to you,
if you want to sit down and say,
okay, let's break this down and
figure this out or let's just
keep doing what we've been doing.
And that's why you have to
define your DevOps, right?
We're not just generalizing DevOps here.
We're not saying that again,
as I said before,
it's something that you can take
from one company to another.
What you're really doing
is is you're defining what
DevOps means uniquely to you and
the company that you work at, yeah.
>> So, how do you handle that fact of most
places have different understanding of
what DevOps is?
>> Right, the easiest way to handle
that different understanding
is really just being open-minded,
being collaborative.
If you go from one company to another,
you can't be disruptive unless
it has very good intent.
And a good example of this is when I even
joined the company I work at now, we
migrated all of our services from GCP to
AWS and we did it in about three months.
And we're talking about 60 to 80 services.
And think about moving
almost 400 people from one
platform to another in three months,
how do you do that, right?
Well, you convince them.
That's what you do,
you sit down and you, again,
break it down right out of the document,
figure out ways of getting people to buy
into the team DevOps isn't just
programming, it's working with people.
It's getting people on your side so
that you can do the programming
that you want to do.
If you don't have that,
then that becomes very challenging.
And so,
if you go from one company to another, for
example, you want to make a lot of change,
that's good.
First, you're gonna have to get buy in.
First you're gonna have to get comfortable
with the people who I basically don't want
you to break anything.
But yeah, once you can get past that,
then you can start defining DevOps at
the company that you work at, yeah.
>> Earlier, I feel like you mentioned
something about companies trying to
put their own spin on DevOps.
I'm wondering how is that different
from defining DevOps for yourself?
>> Sure, so, companies putting a spin
on DevOps versus defining it yourself.
Most companies try and define DevOps
from a marketing perspective.
So, companies like HashiCorp, AWS even,
they're focused on developer tools,
developer productivity,
and stuff like that.
But the prompt is normally
very contrasting.
So something that you can kind of catch
is, when you're looking at a product from,
again, any of like these big cloud
providers or anything like that,
they're going to show you one way of
solving a specific problem, right?
But what we're saying is, is that we're
gonna start with the problem first and
then figure out the tool to get there.
So when you define DevOps,
if it's being defined as a tool
that's solving something,
then that's where you kind of say,
okay, well is this for me?
Is this actually the tool we need?
And that is, again, what's really kind
of challenging about DevOps right now.
Listen, I love a lot of
the companies I've talked about.
I mean, HashiCorp is incredible,
AWS as well as well as a lot of other
these companies that have, literally said,
we see what people are dealing with,
let's move quickly.
And that's why Amazon's got
9,000 different products
that solve the same thing.
But, their hope, and this is what they
don't talk about, I think as much,
is that they're trying to hit
your target of your problem.
You know what I mean?
And if they can do it with this one,
then they'll do it with this one.
then they'll do it with that one.
They're just gonna keep making
more tools to solve your problem.
Whereas your problem might be quicker
solved by just sitting down and
writing it out and being like, okay, cool.
So, that's, I guess the contrast
between the two is one will
normally be focused on tooling,
solving a specific problem.
Whereas the other one is more focused on,
how do we solve our problem and
then find the tool for that.